level0/README.md, before:

# Level0

## Walkthrough

We list the files in the current home directory.

```bash
level0@RainFall:~$ ls -la
total 737
dr-xr-x---+ 1 level0 level0     60 Mar  6  2016 .
dr-x--x--x  1 root   root      340 Sep 23  2015 ..
-rw-r--r--  1 level0 level0    220 Apr  3  2012 .bash_logout
-rw-r--r--  1 level0 level0   3530 Sep 23  2015 .bashrc
-rw-r--r--  1 level0 level0    675 Apr  3  2012 .profile
-rwsr-x---+ 1 level1 users  747441 Mar  6  2016 level0
level0@RainFall:~$ file level0 
level0: setuid ELF 32-bit LSB executable, Intel 80386, version 1 (GNU/Linux), statically linked, for GNU/Linux 2.6.24, BuildID[sha1]=0x85cf4024dbe79c7ccf4f30e7c601a356ce04f412, not stripped
level0@RainFall:~$ ./level0 
Segmentation fault (core dumped)
```

The file is owned by **level1** and has the **setuid** bit.

We use **GDB** to read the assembly code of the `level0` executable.

```
(gdb) disas main
Dump of assembler code for function main:
   0x08048ec0 <+0>:     push   ebp
   0x08048ec1 <+1>:     mov    ebp,esp
   0x08048ec3 <+3>:     and    esp,0xfffffff0
   0x08048ec6 <+6>:     sub    esp,0x20
   0x08048ec9 <+9>:     mov    eax,DWORD PTR [ebp+0xc]
   0x08048ecc <+12>:    add    eax,0x4
   0x08048ecf <+15>:    mov    eax,DWORD PTR [eax]
   0x08048ed1 <+17>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp],eax
   0x08048ed4 <+20>:    call   0x8049710 <atoi>
   0x08048ed9 <+25>:    cmp    eax,0x1a7
   0x08048ede <+30>:    jne    0x8048f58 <main+152>
   0x08048ee0 <+32>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp],0x80c5348
   0x08048ee7 <+39>:    call   0x8050bf0 <strdup>
   0x08048eec <+44>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x10],eax
   0x08048ef0 <+48>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x14],0x0
   0x08048ef8 <+56>:    call   0x8054680 <getegid>
   0x08048efd <+61>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x1c],eax
   0x08048f01 <+65>:    call   0x8054670 <geteuid>
   0x08048f06 <+70>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x18],eax
   0x08048f0a <+74>:    mov    eax,DWORD PTR [esp+0x1c]
   0x08048f0e <+78>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x8],eax
   0x08048f12 <+82>:    mov    eax,DWORD PTR [esp+0x1c]
   0x08048f16 <+86>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x4],eax
   0x08048f1a <+90>:    mov    eax,DWORD PTR [esp+0x1c]
   0x08048f1e <+94>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp],eax
   0x08048f21 <+97>:    call   0x8054700 <setresgid>
   0x08048f26 <+102>:   mov    eax,DWORD PTR [esp+0x18]
   0x08048f2a <+106>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x8],eax
   0x08048f2e <+110>:   mov    eax,DWORD PTR [esp+0x18]
   0x08048f32 <+114>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x4],eax
   0x08048f36 <+118>:   mov    eax,DWORD PTR [esp+0x18]
   0x08048f3a <+122>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp],eax
   0x08048f3d <+125>:   call   0x8054690 <setresuid>
   0x08048f42 <+130>:   lea    eax,[esp+0x10]
   0x08048f46 <+134>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x4],eax
   0x08048f4a <+138>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp],0x80c5348
   0x08048f51 <+145>:   call   0x8054640 <execv>
   0x08048f56 <+150>:   jmp    0x8048f80 <main+192>
   0x08048f58 <+152>:   mov    eax,ds:0x80ee170
   0x08048f5d <+157>:   mov    edx,eax
   0x08048f5f <+159>:   mov    eax,0x80c5350
   0x08048f64 <+164>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0xc],edx
   0x08048f68 <+168>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x8],0x5
   0x08048f70 <+176>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x4],0x1
   0x08048f78 <+184>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp],eax
   0x08048f7b <+187>:   call   0x804a230 <fwrite>
   0x08048f80 <+192>:   mov    eax,0x0
   0x08048f85 <+197>:   leave  
   0x08048f86 <+198>:   ret    
End of assembler dump.
```

In the first lines, we notice that the `main()` function calls `atoi()`, and compares the returned value to check if it's equal to `0x1a7`. If not, it jumps past the `execv()` call and never calls it.

```bash
level0@RainFall:~$ ./level0 423
$ whoami
level1
$ cat /home/user/level1/.pass
1fe8a524fa4bec01ca4ea2a869af2a02260d4a7d5fe7e7c24d8617e6dca12d3a
```

Commit message:

Enhance all README with better explanations

level0/README.md, after:

# Level0

## Walkthrough

We list the files in the current home directory.

```bash
level0@RainFall:~$ ls -la
total 737
dr-xr-x---+ 1 level0 level0     60 Mar  6  2016 .
dr-x--x--x  1 root   root      340 Sep 23  2015 ..
-rw-r--r--  1 level0 level0    220 Apr  3  2012 .bash_logout
-rw-r--r--  1 level0 level0   3530 Sep 23  2015 .bashrc
-rw-r--r--  1 level0 level0    675 Apr  3  2012 .profile
-rwsr-x---+ 1 level1 users  747441 Mar  6  2016 level0
level0@RainFall:~$ file level0 
level0: setuid ELF 32-bit LSB executable, Intel 80386, version 1 (GNU/Linux), statically linked, for GNU/Linux 2.6.24, BuildID[sha1]=0x85cf4024dbe79c7ccf4f30e7c601a356ce04f412, not stripped
```

The `level0` executable is owned by **level1** and has the **setuid** bit.

We use **GDB** to read the assembly code of the `main()` function in the executable.

```
(gdb) disas main
Dump of assembler code for function main:
   0x08048ec0 <+0>:     push   ebp
   0x08048ec1 <+1>:     mov    ebp,esp
   0x08048ec3 <+3>:     and    esp,0xfffffff0
   0x08048ec6 <+6>:     sub    esp,0x20
   0x08048ec9 <+9>:     mov    eax,DWORD PTR [ebp+0xc]
   0x08048ecc <+12>:    add    eax,0x4
   0x08048ecf <+15>:    mov    eax,DWORD PTR [eax]
   0x08048ed1 <+17>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp],eax
   0x08048ed4 <+20>:    call   0x8049710 <atoi>
   0x08048ed9 <+25>:    cmp    eax,0x1a7
   0x08048ede <+30>:    jne    0x8048f58 <main+152>
   0x08048ee0 <+32>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp],0x80c5348
   0x08048ee7 <+39>:    call   0x8050bf0 <strdup>
   0x08048eec <+44>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x10],eax
   0x08048ef0 <+48>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x14],0x0
   0x08048ef8 <+56>:    call   0x8054680 <getegid>
   0x08048efd <+61>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x1c],eax
   0x08048f01 <+65>:    call   0x8054670 <geteuid>
   0x08048f06 <+70>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x18],eax
   0x08048f0a <+74>:    mov    eax,DWORD PTR [esp+0x1c]
   0x08048f0e <+78>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x8],eax
   0x08048f12 <+82>:    mov    eax,DWORD PTR [esp+0x1c]
   0x08048f16 <+86>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x4],eax
   0x08048f1a <+90>:    mov    eax,DWORD PTR [esp+0x1c]
   0x08048f1e <+94>:    mov    DWORD PTR [esp],eax
   0x08048f21 <+97>:    call   0x8054700 <setresgid>
   0x08048f26 <+102>:   mov    eax,DWORD PTR [esp+0x18]
   0x08048f2a <+106>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x8],eax
   0x08048f2e <+110>:   mov    eax,DWORD PTR [esp+0x18]
   0x08048f32 <+114>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x4],eax
   0x08048f36 <+118>:   mov    eax,DWORD PTR [esp+0x18]
   0x08048f3a <+122>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp],eax
   0x08048f3d <+125>:   call   0x8054690 <setresuid>
   0x08048f42 <+130>:   lea    eax,[esp+0x10]
   0x08048f46 <+134>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x4],eax
   0x08048f4a <+138>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp],0x80c5348
   0x08048f51 <+145>:   call   0x8054640 <execv>
   0x08048f56 <+150>:   jmp    0x8048f80 <main+192>
   0x08048f58 <+152>:   mov    eax,ds:0x80ee170
   0x08048f5d <+157>:   mov    edx,eax
   0x08048f5f <+159>:   mov    eax,0x80c5350
   0x08048f64 <+164>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0xc],edx
   0x08048f68 <+168>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x8],0x5
   0x08048f70 <+176>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x4],0x1
   0x08048f78 <+184>:   mov    DWORD PTR [esp],eax
   0x08048f7b <+187>:   call   0x804a230 <fwrite>
   0x08048f80 <+192>:   mov    eax,0x0
   0x08048f85 <+197>:   leave  
   0x08048f86 <+198>:   ret    
End of assembler dump.
```

The `main()` function:
- calls `atoi()` with `argv[1]`
- compares the converted value with `0x1a7` and quits if they are not equal
- calls `execv()` to execute `/bin/sh`

To solve this level, we must pass the value `0x1a7` in decimal as `argv[1]` when calling the executable.

```bash
level0@RainFall:~$ ./level0 423
$ whoami
level1
$ cat /home/user/level1/.pass
1fe8a524fa4bec01ca4ea2a869af2a02260d4a7d5fe7e7c24d8617e6dca12d3a
```
